Doc/c-api/module.rst, before:

.. highlightlang:: c

.. _moduleobjects:

Module Objects
--------------

.. index:: object: module

There are only a few functions special to module objects.


.. c:var:: PyTypeObject PyModule_Type

   .. index:: single: ModuleType (in module types)

   This instance of :c:type:`PyTypeObject` represents the Python module type.  This
   is exposed to Python programs as ``types.ModuleType``.


.. c:function:: int PyModule_Check(PyObject *p)

   Return true if *p* is a module object, or a subtype of a module object.


.. c:function:: int PyModule_CheckExact(PyObject *p)

   Return true if *p* is a module object, but not a subtype of
   :c:data:`PyModule_Type`.


.. c:function:: PyObject* PyModule_NewObject(PyObject *name)

   .. index::
      single: __name__ (module attribute)
      single: __doc__ (module attribute)
      single: __file__ (module attribute)

   Return a new module object with the :attr:`__name__` attribute set to *name*.
   Only the module's :attr:`__doc__` and :attr:`__name__` attributes are filled in;
   the caller is responsible for providing a :attr:`__file__` attribute.

   .. versionadded:: 3.3


.. c:function:: PyObject* PyModule_New(const char *name)

   Similar to :c:func:`PyImport_NewObject`, but the name is an UTF-8 encoded
   string instead of a Unicode object.


.. c:function:: PyObject* PyModule_GetDict(PyObject *module)

   .. index:: single: __dict__ (module attribute)

   Return the dictionary object that implements *module*'s namespace; this object
   is the same as the :attr:`__dict__` attribute of the module object.  This
   function never fails.  It is recommended extensions use other
   :c:func:`PyModule_\*` and :c:func:`PyObject_\*` functions rather than directly
   manipulate a module's :attr:`__dict__`.


.. c:function:: PyObject* PyModule_GetNameObject(PyObject *module)

   .. index::
      single: __name__ (module attribute)
      single: SystemError (built-in exception)

   Return *module*'s :attr:`__name__` value.  If the module does not provide one,
   or if it is not a string, :exc:`SystemError` is raised and *NULL* is returned.

   .. versionadded:: 3.3


.. c:function:: char* PyModule_GetName(PyObject *module)

   Similar to :c:func:`PyModule_GetNameObject` but return the name encoded to
   ``'utf-8'``.


.. c:function:: PyObject* PyModule_GetFilenameObject(PyObject *module)

   .. index::
      single: __file__ (module attribute)
      single: SystemError (built-in exception)

   Return the name of the file from which *module* was loaded using *module*'s
   :attr:`__file__` attribute.  If this is not defined, or if it is not a
   unicode string, raise :exc:`SystemError` and return *NULL*; otherwise return
   a reference to a Unicode object.

   .. versionadded:: 3.2


.. c:function:: char* PyModule_GetFilename(PyObject *module)

   Similar to :c:func:`PyModule_GetFilenameObject` but return the filename
   encoded to 'utf-8'.

   .. deprecated:: 3.2
      :c:func:`PyModule_GetFilename` raises :c:type:`UnicodeEncodeError` on
      unencodable filenames, use :c:func:`PyModule_GetFilenameObject` instead.


.. c:function:: void* PyModule_GetState(PyObject *module)

   Return the "state" of the module, that is, a pointer to the block of memory
   allocated at module creation time, or *NULL*.  See
   :c:member:`PyModuleDef.m_size`.


.. c:function:: PyModuleDef* PyModule_GetDef(PyObject *module)

   Return a pointer to the :c:type:`PyModuleDef` struct from which the module was
   created, or *NULL* if the module wasn't created with
   :c:func:`PyModule_Create`.i

.. c:function:: PyObject* PyState_FindModule(PyModuleDef *def)

   Returns the module object that was created from *def* for the current interpreter.
   This method requires that the module object has been attached to the interpreter state with
   :c:func:`PyState_AddModule` beforehand. In case the corresponding module object is not
   found or has not been attached to the interpreter state yet, it returns NULL.

.. c:function:: int PyState_AddModule(PyObject *module, PyModuleDef *def)

   Attaches the module object passed to the function to the interpreter state. This allows
   the module object to be accessible via
   :c:func:`PyState_FindModule`.

   .. versionadded:: 3.3

.. c:function:: int PyState_RemoveModule(PyModuleDef *def)

   Removes the module object created from *def* from the interpreter state.

   .. versionadded:: 3.3

Initializing C modules
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These functions are usually used in the module initialization function.

.. c:function:: PyObject* PyModule_Create(PyModuleDef *module)

   Create a new module object, given the definition in *module*.  This behaves
   like :c:func:`PyModule_Create2` with *module_api_version* set to
   :const:`PYTHON_API_VERSION`.


.. c:function:: PyObject* PyModule_Create2(PyModuleDef *module, int module_api_version)

   Create a new module object, given the definition in *module*, assuming the
   API version *module_api_version*.  If that version does not match the version
   of the running interpreter, a :exc:`RuntimeWarning` is emitted.

   .. note::

      Most uses of this function should be using :c:func:`PyModule_Create`
      instead; only use this if you are sure you need it.


.. c:type:: PyModuleDef

   This struct holds all information that is needed to create a module object.
   There is usually only one static variable of that type for each module, which
   is statically initialized and then passed to :c:func:`PyModule_Create` in the
   module initialization function.

   .. c:member:: PyModuleDef_Base m_base

      Always initialize this member to :const:`PyModuleDef_HEAD_INIT`.

   .. c:member:: char* m_name

      Name for the new module.

   .. c:member:: char* m_doc

      Docstring for the module; usually a docstring variable created with
      :c:func:`PyDoc_STRVAR` is used.

   .. c:member:: Py_ssize_t m_size

      If the module object needs additional memory, this should be set to the
      number of bytes to allocate; a pointer to the block of memory can be
      retrieved with :c:func:`PyModule_GetState`.  If no memory is needed, set
      this to ``-1``.

      This memory should be used, rather than static globals, to hold per-module
      state, since it is then safe for use in multiple sub-interpreters.  It is
      freed when the module object is deallocated, after the :c:member:`m_free`
      function has been called, if present.

   .. c:member:: PyMethodDef* m_methods

      A pointer to a table of module-level functions, described by
      :c:type:`PyMethodDef` values.  Can be *NULL* if no functions are present.

   .. c:member:: inquiry m_reload

      Currently unused, should be *NULL*.

   .. c:member:: traverseproc m_traverse

      A traversal function to call during GC traversal of the module object, or
      *NULL* if not needed.

   .. c:member:: inquiry m_clear

      A clear function to call during GC clearing of the module object, or
      *NULL* if not needed.

   .. c:member:: freefunc m_free

      A function to call during deallocation of the module object, or *NULL* if
      not needed.


.. c:function:: int PyModule_AddObject(PyObject *module, const char *name, PyObject *value)

   Add an object to *module* as *name*.  This is a convenience function which can
   be used from the module's initialization function.  This steals a reference to
   *value*.  Return ``-1`` on error, ``0`` on success.


.. c:function:: int PyModule_AddIntConstant(PyObject *module, const char *name, long value)

   Add an integer constant to *module* as *name*.  This convenience function can be
   used from the module's initialization function. Return ``-1`` on error, ``0`` on
   success.


.. c:function:: int PyModule_AddStringConstant(PyObject *module, const char *name, const char *value)

   Add a string constant to *module* as *name*.  This convenience function can be
   used from the module's initialization function.  The string *value* must be
   null-terminated.  Return ``-1`` on error, ``0`` on success.


.. c:function:: int PyModule_AddIntMacro(PyObject *module, macro)

   Add an int constant to *module*. The name and the value are taken from
   *macro*. For example ``PyModule_AddIntMacro(module, AF_INET)`` adds the int
   constant *AF_INET* with the value of *AF_INET* to *module*.
   Return ``-1`` on error, ``0`` on success.


.. c:function:: int PyModule_AddStringMacro(PyObject *module, macro)

   Add a string constant to *module*.

Commit message:

#17115,17116: Have modules initialize the __package__ and __loader__ attributes to None.
The long-term goal is for people to be able to rely on these
attributes existing and checking for None to see if they have been
set. Since import itself sets these attributes when a loader does not
the only instances when the attributes are None are from someone
overloading __import__() and not using a loader or someone creating a
module from scratch.

This patch also unifies module initialization. Before you could have
different attributes with default values depending on how the module
object was created. Now the only way to not get the same default set
of attributes is to circumvent initialization by calling
ModuleType.__new__() directly.

Doc/c-api/module.rst, after:

.. highlightlang:: c

.. _moduleobjects:

Module Objects
--------------

.. index:: object: module

There are only a few functions special to module objects.


.. c:var:: PyTypeObject PyModule_Type

   .. index:: single: ModuleType (in module types)

   This instance of :c:type:`PyTypeObject` represents the Python module type.  This
   is exposed to Python programs as ``types.ModuleType``.


.. c:function:: int PyModule_Check(PyObject *p)

   Return true if *p* is a module object, or a subtype of a module object.


.. c:function:: int PyModule_CheckExact(PyObject *p)

   Return true if *p* is a module object, but not a subtype of
   :c:data:`PyModule_Type`.


.. c:function:: PyObject* PyModule_NewObject(PyObject *name)

   .. index::
      single: __name__ (module attribute)
      single: __doc__ (module attribute)
      single: __file__ (module attribute)
      single: __package__ (module attribute)
      single: __loader__ (module attribute)

   Return a new module object with the :attr:`__name__` attribute set to *name*.
   The module's :attr:`__name__`, :attr:`__doc__`, :attr:`__package__`, and
   :attr:`__loader__` attributes are filled in (all but :attr:`__name__` are set
   to ``None``); the caller is responsible for providing a :attr:`__file__`
   attribute.

   .. versionadded:: 3.3

   .. versionchanged:: 3.4
      :attr:`__package__` and :attr:`__loader__` are set to ``None``.


.. c:function:: PyObject* PyModule_New(const char *name)

   Similar to :c:func:`PyImport_NewObject`, but the name is an UTF-8 encoded
   string instead of a Unicode object.


.. c:function:: PyObject* PyModule_GetDict(PyObject *module)

   .. index:: single: __dict__ (module attribute)

   Return the dictionary object that implements *module*'s namespace; this object
   is the same as the :attr:`__dict__` attribute of the module object.  This
   function never fails.  It is recommended extensions use other
   :c:func:`PyModule_\*` and :c:func:`PyObject_\*` functions rather than directly
   manipulate a module's :attr:`__dict__`.


.. c:function:: PyObject* PyModule_GetNameObject(PyObject *module)

   .. index::
      single: __name__ (module attribute)
      single: SystemError (built-in exception)

   Return *module*'s :attr:`__name__` value.  If the module does not provide one,
   or if it is not a string, :exc:`SystemError` is raised and *NULL* is returned.

   .. versionadded:: 3.3


.. c:function:: char* PyModule_GetName(PyObject *module)

   Similar to :c:func:`PyModule_GetNameObject` but return the name encoded to
   ``'utf-8'``.


.. c:function:: PyObject* PyModule_GetFilenameObject(PyObject *module)

   .. index::
      single: __file__ (module attribute)
      single: SystemError (built-in exception)

   Return the name of the file from which *module* was loaded using *module*'s
   :attr:`__file__` attribute.  If this is not defined, or if it is not a
   unicode string, raise :exc:`SystemError` and return *NULL*; otherwise return
   a reference to a Unicode object.

   .. versionadded:: 3.2


.. c:function:: char* PyModule_GetFilename(PyObject *module)

   Similar to :c:func:`PyModule_GetFilenameObject` but return the filename
   encoded to 'utf-8'.

   .. deprecated:: 3.2
      :c:func:`PyModule_GetFilename` raises :c:type:`UnicodeEncodeError` on
      unencodable filenames, use :c:func:`PyModule_GetFilenameObject` instead.


.. c:function:: void* PyModule_GetState(PyObject *module)

   Return the "state" of the module, that is, a pointer to the block of memory
   allocated at module creation time, or *NULL*.  See
   :c:member:`PyModuleDef.m_size`.


.. c:function:: PyModuleDef* PyModule_GetDef(PyObject *module)

   Return a pointer to the :c:type:`PyModuleDef` struct from which the module was
   created, or *NULL* if the module wasn't created with
   :c:func:`PyModule_Create`.i

.. c:function:: PyObject* PyState_FindModule(PyModuleDef *def)

   Returns the module object that was created from *def* for the current interpreter.
   This method requires that the module object has been attached to the interpreter state with
   :c:func:`PyState_AddModule` beforehand. In case the corresponding module object is not
   found or has not been attached to the interpreter state yet, it returns NULL.

.. c:function:: int PyState_AddModule(PyObject *module, PyModuleDef *def)

   Attaches the module object passed to the function to the interpreter state. This allows
   the module object to be accessible via
   :c:func:`PyState_FindModule`.

   .. versionadded:: 3.3

.. c:function:: int PyState_RemoveModule(PyModuleDef *def)

   Removes the module object created from *def* from the interpreter state.

   .. versionadded:: 3.3

Initializing C modules
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These functions are usually used in the module initialization function.

.. c:function:: PyObject* PyModule_Create(PyModuleDef *module)

   Create a new module object, given the definition in *module*.  This behaves
   like :c:func:`PyModule_Create2` with *module_api_version* set to
   :const:`PYTHON_API_VERSION`.


.. c:function:: PyObject* PyModule_Create2(PyModuleDef *module, int module_api_version)

   Create a new module object, given the definition in *module*, assuming the
   API version *module_api_version*.  If that version does not match the version
   of the running interpreter, a :exc:`RuntimeWarning` is emitted.

   .. note::

      Most uses of this function should be using :c:func:`PyModule_Create`
      instead; only use this if you are sure you need it.


.. c:type:: PyModuleDef

   This struct holds all information that is needed to create a module object.
   There is usually only one static variable of that type for each module, which
   is statically initialized and then passed to :c:func:`PyModule_Create` in the
   module initialization function.

   .. c:member:: PyModuleDef_Base m_base

      Always initialize this member to :const:`PyModuleDef_HEAD_INIT`.

   .. c:member:: char* m_name

      Name for the new module.

   .. c:member:: char* m_doc

      Docstring for the module; usually a docstring variable created with
      :c:func:`PyDoc_STRVAR` is used.

   .. c:member:: Py_ssize_t m_size

      If the module object needs additional memory, this should be set to the
      number of bytes to allocate; a pointer to the block of memory can be
      retrieved with :c:func:`PyModule_GetState`.  If no memory is needed, set
      this to ``-1``.

      This memory should be used, rather than static globals, to hold per-module
      state, since it is then safe for use in multiple sub-interpreters.  It is
      freed when the module object is deallocated, after the :c:member:`m_free`
      function has been called, if present.

   .. c:member:: PyMethodDef* m_methods

      A pointer to a table of module-level functions, described by
      :c:type:`PyMethodDef` values.  Can be *NULL* if no functions are present.

   .. c:member:: inquiry m_reload

      Currently unused, should be *NULL*.

   .. c:member:: traverseproc m_traverse

      A traversal function to call during GC traversal of the module object, or
      *NULL* if not needed.

   .. c:member:: inquiry m_clear

      A clear function to call during GC clearing of the module object, or
      *NULL* if not needed.

   .. c:member:: freefunc m_free

      A function to call during deallocation of the module object, or *NULL* if
      not needed.


.. c:function:: int PyModule_AddObject(PyObject *module, const char *name, PyObject *value)

   Add an object to *module* as *name*.  This is a convenience function which can
   be used from the module's initialization function.  This steals a reference to
   *value*.  Return ``-1`` on error, ``0`` on success.


.. c:function:: int PyModule_AddIntConstant(PyObject *module, const char *name, long value)

   Add an integer constant to *module* as *name*.  This convenience function can be
   used from the module's initialization function. Return ``-1`` on error, ``0`` on
   success.


.. c:function:: int PyModule_AddStringConstant(PyObject *module, const char *name, const char *value)

   Add a string constant to *module* as *name*.  This convenience function can be
   used from the module's initialization function.  The string *value* must be
   null-terminated.  Return ``-1`` on error, ``0`` on success.


.. c:function:: int PyModule_AddIntMacro(PyObject *module, macro)

   Add an int constant to *module*. The name and the value are taken from
   *macro*. For example ``PyModule_AddIntMacro(module, AF_INET)`` adds the int
   constant *AF_INET* with the value of *AF_INET* to *module*.
   Return ``-1`` on error, ``0`` on success.


.. c:function:: int PyModule_AddStringMacro(PyObject *module, macro)

   Add a string constant to *module*.
