Doc/library/copy_reg.rst, before:

:mod:`copy_reg` --- Register :mod:`pickle` support functions
============================================================

.. module:: copy_reg
   :synopsis: Register pickle support functions.

.. note::
   The :mod:`copy_reg` module has been renamed to :mod:`copyreg` in Python 3.
   The :term:`2to3` tool will automatically adapt imports when converting your
   sources to Python 3.

.. index::
   module: pickle
   module: cPickle
   module: copy

The :mod:`copy_reg` module provides support for the :mod:`pickle` and
:mod:`cPickle` modules.  The :mod:`copy` module is likely to use this in the
future as well.  It provides configuration information about object constructors
which are not classes.  Such constructors may be factory functions or class
instances.


.. function:: constructor(object)

   Declares *object* to be a valid constructor.  If *object* is not callable (and
   hence not valid as a constructor), raises :exc:`TypeError`.


.. function:: pickle(type, function[, constructor])

   Declares that *function* should be used as a "reduction" function for objects of
   type *type*; *type* must not be a "classic" class object.  (Classic classes are
   handled differently; see the documentation for the :mod:`pickle` module for
   details.)  *function* should return either a string or a tuple containing two or
   three elements.

   The optional *constructor* parameter, if provided, is a callable object which
   can be used to reconstruct the object when called with the tuple of arguments
   returned by *function* at pickling time.  :exc:`TypeError` will be raised if
   *object* is a class or *constructor* is not callable.

   See the :mod:`pickle` module for more details on the interface expected of
   *function* and *constructor*.

Commit message:

#11481: update copy_reg docs and add example.

Doc/library/copy_reg.rst, after:

:mod:`copy_reg` --- Register :mod:`pickle` support functions
============================================================

.. module:: copy_reg
   :synopsis: Register pickle support functions.

.. note::
   The :mod:`copy_reg` module has been renamed to :mod:`copyreg` in Python 3.
   The :term:`2to3` tool will automatically adapt imports when converting your
   sources to Python 3.

.. index::
   module: pickle
   module: cPickle
   module: copy

The :mod:`copy_reg` module offers a way to define fuctions used while pickling
specific objects.  The :mod:`pickle`, :mod:`cPickle, and :mod:`copy` modules
use those functions when pickling/copying those objects.  The module provides
configuration information about object constructors which are not classes.
Such constructors may be factory functions or class instances.


.. function:: constructor(object)

   Declares *object* to be a valid constructor.  If *object* is not callable (and
   hence not valid as a constructor), raises :exc:`TypeError`.


.. function:: pickle(type, function[, constructor])

   Declares that *function* should be used as a "reduction" function for objects of
   type *type*; *type* must not be a "classic" class object.  (Classic classes are
   handled differently; see the documentation for the :mod:`pickle` module for
   details.)  *function* should return either a string or a tuple containing two or
   three elements.

   The optional *constructor* parameter, if provided, is a callable object which
   can be used to reconstruct the object when called with the tuple of arguments
   returned by *function* at pickling time.  :exc:`TypeError` will be raised if
   *object* is a class or *constructor* is not callable.

   See the :mod:`pickle` module for more details on the interface expected of
   *function* and *constructor*.

Example
-------

The example below would like to show how to register a pickle function and how
it will be used:

   >>> import copy_reg, copy, pickle
   >>> class C(object):
   ...     def __init__(self, a):
   ...         self.a = a
   ...
   >>> def pickle_c(c):
   ...     print("pickling a C instance...")
   ...     return C, (c.a,)
   ...
   >>> copy_reg.pickle(C, pickle_c)
   >>> c = C(1)
   >>> d = copy.copy(c)
   pickling a C instance...
   >>> p = pickle.dumps(c)
   pickling a C instance...
